# ADR 005: Deprecate Crypto.org Chain's custom `x/supply` module

## Changelog
* 09-03-2022: Initial draft

## Context

The current `x/supply` module tracks liquid supply of a given token using the following formula:

```
liquid_supply = total_supply - (unvested_supply + module_account_balance)
```

where,

- `total_supply`: Total supply of a `denom` which is obtained from `x/bank` module.
- `unvested_supply`: The sum of tokens locked in vesting accounts (`x/supply` maintains a static list of vesting
  accounts configured in `genesis.json`, it does not support adding/removing vesting accounts).
- `module_account_balance`: The sum of tokens locked in module accounts of different modules (`x/supply` maintains a
  static list of module accounts that it uses to fetch total tokens locked in module accounts)

Current module account list:

```
// ModuleAccounts defines the module accounts which will be queried to get liquid supply
ModuleAccounts = []string{
	authtypes.FeeCollectorName,
	distrtypes.ModuleName,
	stakingtypes.BondedPoolName,
	stakingtypes.NotBondedPoolName,
	minttypes.ModuleName,
	govtypes.ModuleName,
}
```

To accurately calculate `liquid_supply`, `x/supply` module needs updated list of all the vesting accounts and module
accounts. Also, for all the vesting accounts and module accounts, it loops over them and fetches their balance
one-by-one (which'll not be efficient if there are a lot of vesting accounts).

## Decision

Proposed solution is to deprecate and remove `x/supply` and rely on the solution developed under
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/7774 for getting liquid supply of a token. 

For the short-term, ability to calculate liquid supply will be added in explorer: https://github.com/crypto-com/chain-indexing/issues/700.

### Timeline

1. `x/supply` module will be marked as deprecated (this can be done by adding annotation to `.proto` files
   https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/issues/1734#issuecomment-662623725).
2. Once one of the above mentioned solution for getting liquid supply is implemented, `x/supply` module will be removed
   from Crypto.org Chain.

## Status

Proposed

## Consequences

### Positive

Users will get more accurate sources for getting liquid supply of a token.

### Negative

None.

### Neutral

As there is no immediate solution available, users will have to wait for one of the above mentioned solution to be
implemented for getting accurate liquid supply of a token.

## References

* https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/chain-main/issues/716
* https://github.com/crypto-com/chain-indexing/issues/700
* https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/7774
