# ADR 001: Add CosmWasm Module

## Changelog
* 05-03-2021: Initial Draft
* 08-03-2021: Updated Backwards-compatibility Comments
* 26-04-2021: Added More Consequence Comments

## Context

Crypto.org Chain logic may need to be extended to support new digital asset and financial use cases
in the near future. 
In the initial implementation, Crypto.org Chain logic is extensible through three different mechanisms:

1. Cryptographic commitments and multi-signatures: 
through the existing and future (e.g. BIP-340) signature verification mechanisms, 
one can potentially create accounts that, through their construction, enforce additional conditions
on their transactions. This could done in different ways (e.g. see "Discreet Log Contracts" and "Adaptor Signatures").
Alternatively, the most "flexible" approach is if a conventional multi-signature is constructed, but one of the
"signers" is a secure enclave program executed by all parties.

2. Inter-Blockchain Communication (IBC): the other connecting network or solo machine could enforce additional conditions
or provide extra functionality (over the current ICS20).

3. The Cosmos SDK "upgrade" module: the network-wide activation of new modules or changes in existing modules can be coordinated
via the dedicated module.

While the first two mechanisms are intriguing, their current ecosystem support is limited or non-existent.
Besides that, the extra logic they can provide is mostly opaque to the overall network: this is often desirable
(for scalability reasons), but may not desirable in certain use cases where the full public verifiability is needed.

The third mechanism is a bit "heavy-weight" in the sense that it requires an explicit action by all node operators
at the same time. The current version of Tendermint (0.34) also does not allow a "soft" upgrade.

CosmWasm is a new promising module for Cosmos SDK-based projects. It allows extensibility through the 
dominant approach of metered "stored procedures", popularized by Ethereum under the term "smart contracts". 
Unlike on Ethereum, the target binary format (WebAssembly) is an official LLVM target 
and mainstream programming languages (such as Rust) can be used for development.
The overall design avoids many of the common pitfalls (e.g. reetrancy attacks) developers face on Ethereum.

There are two main concerns regarding CosmWasm:

1. It is a new unstable module: this is concerning from both the security perspective
(e.g. DoS attack vectors in its execution engine) and the backwards compatibility perspective
(stored bytecode that targeted the older module version may not execute correctly on its new version).

2. Cosmos SDK itself is not yet stable: before "1.0", there may breaking changes and "smart contracts"
that interfaced with native modules may not execute correctly. This should be mitigated by the CosmWasm
adaptor interface.

## Decision

The plan is to include the CosmWasm module once the upstream Cosmos SDK version settles (most likely with SDK v0.43/v0.44
and CosmWasm "1.0 RFC").
As the module is added, the chain-main application major version should be bumped to "v3" (unless it was
already done so with other breaking changes). This version should be used for development
and on the public testnet, and the CosmWasm module should be updated to v1.0 when it is ready.
This development-only version may need to disable Windows and Arm64 build target for its binaries
and the testnet instructions may need to be update to disable the "State Sync" feature.
Finally after the CosmWasm module is on the stable release, this is sufficiently
tested on developer networks and the public testnet and the pending issues are resolved (e.g. build target support), 
the upgrade handler should be added to initialize the module with the setting similar to the "gaia-flex" network parameters:

```json
    "wasm": {
      "params": {
        "code_upload_access": {
          "permission": "Nobody"
        },
        "instantiate_default_permission": "Nobody"
      }
    }
```

This setting is placed to address the initial concerns regarding the CosmWasm and Cosmos SDK stability.
With this setting, the "gov" module needs to be used to upload code and to instantiate it.
The code upload access permission may be revisited to be against `OnlyAddress`,
and the instantiate default permission may be loosened to `Everybody`.
Execution does not require the "gov" module, but the "gov" module may be used to migrate contracts, 
i.e. replace the running code with other code.

Each governance decision should judge each uploaded code with the respect to the security and stability concerns
mentioned above. From the use case perspective, the preference is given to code that adds use cases that do not have a
widely-used standardized native equivalent in the official Cosmos SDK native modules (e.g. non-fungible tokens).

This setting remains until the Cosmos SDK stable release is on the horizon (e.g. one version prior to it),
i.e. most of its planned breaking changes are known and one can verify that the CosmWasm module is unaffected
and can bridge all smart contract functionality using its adaptor interface.

## Status

Accepted

## Consequences

### Positive
* Any mainstream programming language can be potentially used to extend Crypto.org Chain
without "hard fork" upgrades.
* One may leverage Rust verification tooling in development (e.g. MIRAI or Creusot).
* "WASM" as a compilation target is fairly mature and supported across the industry.
* Support for new use cases can be added in a more lightweight (i.e. less disruptive) way.
* CosmWasm avoids many EVM and Solidity pitfalls by design.
* Existing ecosystem tooling can be leveraged (e.g. support in the Keplr web wallet).
* Cross-chain smart contract execution via IBC can be leveraged for further extensions
or operations on CosmWasm-originating digital assets.

### Negative
* Potential transaction sizes may be larger due to CosmWasm code and data sizes.
* Some network parameters may need to be revisited depending on the public testnet experience: e.g. the maximum block size and gas fee.
* CosmWasm uploaded code performance may be somewhat worse than of native modules.
* The functionality in CosmWasm uploaded code may overlap with existing or future standardized native modules
(i.e. potential extra complexity for wallets or other ecosystem tooling).
* The attack surface is increased with the extra module.
* "State Sync" may need to be disabled.
* Arm64 and Windows build targets may need to be disabled.

### Neutral
* The initial restrictions due to code upload and instantiation being subject to governance
(if this is limiting to any use cases, the IBC cross-chain execution may potentially be leveraged
on less restrictive networks).
* The initial breaking change and a need for the upgrade handler.
* The automatic gas estimation in the current version of Cosmos SDK may not work well.
* Additional ecosystem tooling may need to be developed.

## References

* [Discreet Log Contracts](https://dci.mit.edu/smart-contracts)
* [Adaptor Signatures](https://tlu.tarilabs.com/cryptography/scriptless-scripts/introduction-to-scriptless-scripts.html)
* [Tendermint Soft Upgrades issue](https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/issues/5680)
* [CosmWasm: Lessons Learned from Ethereum](https://docs.cosmwasm.com/0.13/architecture/smart-contracts.html#lessons-learned-from-ethereum)
* [CosmWasm 1.0.0 Milestone](https://github.com/CosmWasm/cosmwasm/milestone/8)
* [CosmWasm Governance Proposals](https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmd/blob/master/x/wasm/Governance.md)
* [A Path to CosmWasm 1.0](https://medium.com/confio/a-path-to-cosmwasm-1-0-13ec59934898)
* [Cosmos SDK state-sync hooks](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/7340#issuecomment-811908201)
* [wasmvm ARM support](https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm/issues/53#issuecomment-807375287)
* [wasmvm Windows support](https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm/issues/28#issuecomment-784161256)