# ADR 003: Canis Major (1st Network Upgrade Scope of Breaking Changes)

## Changelog
* 28-04-2021: Initial Draft

## Context

At this time, the Crypto.org Chain network has been live for one month and three issues that require a "hardfork" (i.e. a coordinated network upgrade due to consensus state machine-related breaking changes) have been identified:

1. Due to a bug in Cosmos SDK v0.42.*, the vesting accounts are restricted to executing one action (e.g. delegation) during their vesting period and their delegations are not tracked. This bug e.g. affects the community participants of the Crossfire incentivized testnet.

2. Due to bugs in IBC solo machine client implementation and specification, it is currently impossible to open connections from "IBC solo machines". These bugs prevent utilizing IBC solo machines for some planned network use cases, such as stablecoin issuance (in the meantime, one can instead use e.g. single-validator Tendermint networks).

3. There is a demand to introduce product-driven network features beyond the initial fungible transfers, staking management etc.

The first issue should be addressed in Cosmos SDK v0.43.* releases. The second issue should be addressed in IBC v1.0.1 implementation and specification revision. The third issue is discussed in detail in [ADR-001](./adr-001.md).

The scope of these issue hence depends on three external project releases (Cosmos SDK, ibc-go, CosmWasm) which may have divergent milestones in the near future. In addition to that, Cosmos SDK v0.43.* contains many other new features and breaking changes
and CosmWasm's current implementation implies a few severe limitations (e.g. no Windows support or problems with the "state sync" node feature).

## Decision

In order to address the above issues earlier, the following changes are to be made:

1. The latest Cosmos SDK's 0.42 release is going to be forked and the following changes are to be applied on top of it:
- Backporting changes from [the vesting account fix](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/pull/8865/files)
- Custom state migration code (as the one included in the fix depends on the 0.43 codebase)
- If the [IBC solo machine client implementation and specification fixes](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc/issues/562) are confirmed to be safe by external maintainers, all the IBC solo machine client implementation are to be backported (note that the IBC modules were separated out from the Cosmos SDK repository).
- Upgrade to the latest Tendermint Core.

2. The PR that upgrades the chain-main repository to the forked Cosmos SDK should modify the "v2" upgrade handler to execute the state migrations and include the following integration test:
- Start a network with the 1.2.1 binary and have several types of vesting accounts in the genesis file.
- Do some action with the vesting accounts.
- Confirm that further actions are not possible.
- Submit a governance proposals for the network upgrade and make it pass in the integration test.
- After switching to the new binary, confirm that the vesting accounts have the expected balances, can query their delegations and do further actions on the network (and that the vesting period still applies).

3. If the IBC solo machine client implementation fixes are included in the forked SDK, automated tests with the current solo machine prototype should be added.

4. The [IRISnet's NFT module](https://github.com/irisnet/irismod/tree/master/modules/nft)'s code is to be vendored in the chain-main's codebase and integration tests that cover its functionality should be added in the same PR.

Once all changes are included, the release should be first made for the next Croeseid public testnet upgrade. Besides the integration tests, all the expected fixes and new features should also be tested manually on the public testnet as well as in other network deployments (e.g. mainnet upgrade dry-runs).

## Status

Proposed

## Consequences

### Positive
* Earlier resolution of some of the existing live network's issues.
* A smaller scope of breaking changes.

### Negative
* A custom Cosmos SDK fork.
* A need to develop a custom state migration code.
* If IBC solo machine fixes are included, one will have a custom IBC module version containing unreleased or planned changes.
* A custom NFT functionality that is not widely supported.

### Neutral
* If the future InterNFT reference implementation or the standard Cosmos SDK NFT module is similar to the current IRISnet's NFT module, it may be possible to develop custom state migration code to move the NFT native assets to conform to standardized functionality.

## References

* [Unable to delegate multiple times on vesting account](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/8812)
* [Track delegation not work for vesting account](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/8601)
* [Backporting vesting account fix](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/9113#issuecomment-819693258)
* [IBC ConnectionOpenAck fails for solo machine client](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/issues/119)
* [fix solo machine merkle prefix casting bug](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/122)
* [Fix solo machine handshake verification bug](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/120)
* [solo machine proof height fix](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/123)
* [Crypto.org Chain Intergalactic Roadmap](https://blog.crypto.com/crypto-org-chain-intergalactic-roadmap/)
* [Cosmos SDK v0.43.0-alpha1 release notes](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/releases/tag/v0.43.0-alpha1)
* [NFT module on the Hub](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/discussions/9065)